An Excerpt from Angela's Ashes by Frank McCourt, Chapter 6, pages 151 - 152

Mr. O'Neill is the master in the fourth class at the school.  We call him Dotty because
he's small like a dot.  He teaches in the one classroom with a platform so that he can
stand above us and threaten us with his ash plant and peel his apple for all to see.
The first day of school in September he writes on the blackboard three words which are
to stay there the rest of the year, Euclid, geometry, idiot.  He says if he catches any
boy interfering with these words that boy will go through the rest of his life with
only one hand.  He says anyone who doesn't understand THE theorems of Euclid is an
idiot.  Now, repeat after me, anyone who doesn't understand the theorems of Euclid is
an idiot.  Of course we all know what an idiot is becuase that's what the masters keep
telling us we are.  

  Brendan James Quigley raises his hand.  Sir, what's a theorem and what's a Euclid?  

  We expect Dotty to lash at Brendadn the way all the masters do when you ask them a
question but he looks at Brendan with a little smile.  Ah, now, here's a boy with not
one but two questions.  What is your name, boy?

  Brendan Quigley, sir.

  This is a boy who will go far.  Where will he go, boys?

  Far, Sir.

  Indeed and he will.  The boy who wants to know something about the grace, elegance
and beauty of Euclid can go nowhere but up.  In what direction and no other can this
boy go, boys?

  Up, sir.

  Without Euclid, boys, mathematics would be a poor doddering thing.  Without Euclid we
wouldn't be able to go from here to there.  Without Euclid the bicycle would have no
wheel.  Without Euclid St. Joseph could not have been a carpenter for carpentry is
geometry and geometry is carpentry.  Without Euclid this very shchool could never have
been built.  

  Paddy Clohessy mutters behind me, Feckin' Euclid.

  Dotty barks at him.  You, boy, what is your name?

  Clohessy, sir.

  Ah, the boy flies on one wing.  What is your Christian name?

  Paddy. 

  Paddy, what?

  Paddy, sir.

  And what Paddy, were you saying to McCourt?

  I said we should get down on our knees and thank God for Euclid.  

  I am sure you did Clohessy.  I see the lie festering in your teeth.  What do I see
boys?

  The lie, sir.

  And what is the lie doing, boys?

  Festering, sir.

  Where, boys, where?

  In his teeth, sir.

  Euclid, boys, was a Greek.  What, Clohessy, is a Greek?

  Some class of a foreigner, sir.

  Clohessy, you are a half-wit.  Now, Brendan, surely you know what a Greek is?

  Yes, sir.  Euclid was a Greek.  

  Dotty gives him a little smile.  He tells Clohessy he should model himself on
Quigley, who knows what a Greek is.
